[Music]
before I share with you some of what I
do knows I want to talk with you about
what I don't know not I have two older
brothers one was in high school in the
early 1970s and this was a time when a
high school GED got you a job not in a
college degree he was exemplary
my other brother Pat was in high school
in the early 80s and by this time the
GED wasn't enough to guarantee
employment he needed a college degree
and if you got one you had a pretty good
chance to get the kind of job that you
wanted after you graduate now me I
graduated high school in 1988 got my
college degree in 1993 and that college
degree in 93 did not mean as much it was
not a ticket it was not a voucher it was
not a free pass go to anything so I
asked the question what does your
college degree me it means you got an
education means you have more knowledge
as a specific subject vocation it means
you may have more expertise and what
your degree is in but what's it worth in
the job market out there today we know
the market for college graduates is more
competitive now than ever now some of
you already have a job lined up you've
got a path where today's job is going to
become tomorrow's career but for most of
you the future is probably still pretty
fuzzy you don't have that job that
directly reflects the degree you just
got many of you don't even have a job at
all think about you've just completed
your scholastic curriculum in life the
one that you started when you were five
years old in kindergarten up until now
and your future may not be any more
clear than it was five years ago you
don't have the answers and it's probably
a pretty damn scary and I say that's
okay because that is how it hits this is
the reality that many of you are facing
this is the world that we live in the
sooner that we become less impressed
with our life with our accomplishments
with our career with whatever that
prospect isn't
the sooner we become less impressed and
more involved with that and these things
the sooner we get a whole lot better at
doing it so I'm going to talk to you
about some things I've learned in my
journey most from experience some of
them I heard in passing many of them I'm
still practicing but all of them I do
believe our truth now they may be truth
to me but don't think that that makes
them mine because you cannot own a truth
so please think of these as signposts
approaches paradigms that give some
science to satisfaction so your steel
yours to share like into your own lives
to personally apply in your own lives in
your own way should you choose to so
here we go number one this should come
up on the jumbotron life's not easy is
it up there life is not easy it is not
don't try to make it that way
life's not fair it never was it isn't
now and it won't ever be do not fall
into the trap the entitlement trap of
feeling like you're a victim you are not
get over it and get on with it and yes
most things are more rewarding when you
break a sweat to get them
number two unbelievable is the stupidest
word the dictionary
should never come out of our mouth think
about it to say oh wow what an
unbelievable play it was an unbelievable
book an unbelievable film an
unbelievable act of courage
really it may be spectacular it may be
phenomenal most excellent or outstanding
but unbelievable give others and
yourself more credit it just happened
you witnessed it you just did it believe
it what about the other side of
unbelievable you know that that side
when we humans underperform or act out
of our best character for instance man
flies a suicide jet into the World Trade
Center millions die from diseases every
day that we have cures for Bob the
Builder swears that he's going to have
your house built by Thanksgiving and you
can't move in until Christmas the next
year our best friends lied to us and we
lie to ourselves all the time
unbelievable
I don't think so again it just happens
and it happens every day nothing that we
Homo Sapien earthlings do is
unbelievable and if there's one thing
you can depend on people being it's
people so we shouldn't be surprised
we US are the trickiest mammals walking
the planet I'm not worried about the
monkeys I'm worried about you and me who
happiness is an emotional response to an
outcome if I win I will be happy if I
don't I won't
it's an if-then cause-and-effect quid
pro quo
standard that we cannot sustain because
we immediately raise it every time we
attain it see happiness happiness
demands a certain outcome it is result
reliant and I say if happiness is what
you're after then you're gonna be let
down frequently are you're going to be
unhappy much of your time
joy though Joy's a different thing it's
something else Joey is not a choice it's
not a response to some result it's a
constant joy is the feeling that we have
from doing what we are fashioned to do
no matter the outcome now personally as
an actor I started enjoying my work and
literally being more happy when I
stopped trying to make the daily labor a
means to ascertain in for exemple I need
this film to be the box-office success
I need my performance to be acknowledged
I need the respect of my peers but all
those are reasonable aspirations but the
truth is as soon as the work the daily
making of the movie the doing of the
deed became the reward in itself for me
I got more box-office more accolades and
respect than I ever had before see joy
is always in process it's under
construction it is in constant approach
alive and well in the doing of what
we're faster you do and enjoying
number four define success for your
settlement check this out I'm in South
of New Orleans a few years ago I went to
a voodoo shop and they had this wooden
partition against the wall of these
columns and in these columns or these
vials of these magic potions right and
the headings above each potion defining
what they would give you or things like
fertility health family legal health
energy forgiveness money guess which
column was empty
Monday somebody please tell me where
else you're gonna have this much fucking
bet submit it money's king today it's
what make the work makes the world go
round it is success the more we have the
more successful we are right now I would
argue that our cultural values have even
been financialized financialized
humility is not vogue anymore it's too
passive it's a get-rich-quick on the
Internet riches 15 minutes of fame world
that we live in and we see it every day
but we all want to succeed right so the
question that we gotta ask ourselves is
what success is to us what success is to
you is it more money that's fine I got
nothing against money maybe it's a
healthy family maybe it's a happy
marriage maybe it's to help others to be
famous to be spiritually sound leave the
world a little bit better place than you
found it
continue to ask yourself that question
now your answer may change over time and
that's fine but do yourself this favor
whatever your answer is don't choose
anything that will jeopardize yourself
prioritize who you are who you want to
be and don't spend time with anything
that antagonizes your character don't
drink the kool-aid pan it tastes sweet
but you will get cavities tomorrow
all right life is not a popularity
contest be brave take the hill but first
answer that question
what's my hill so me how do i how do i
define success for me myself well for me
it's a measurement of five things we got
fatherhood we got to being a good
husband we got my health I'm body and
spirit we've got career and we have
friendships these are what's important
to me in my life right now so I try to
measure these five things each day I
check in with them I like to see whether
or not I'm in the the debit section or
the credit section with each woman and
man in the red or I'm in the black you
follow for instance sometimes say my
career's rolling alright it's way up
here in the black but I see how my
relationship with my life maybe could
use a little bit more of my attention I
got to pick up the slack on being a
better husband get that one out of the
red or say my spiritual health could use
some maintenance it's down here but hey
man my friendships in my social life
they're in high gear right I got to
recalibrate checks and balances I got to
go to church remember to say thank you
more often something
and I got to take the tally because I
want to keep all five in healthy shape
and I know that if I don't take care of
it if I don't keep up maintenance on
them one of them is going to get weak
man it's gonna dip too deep into the
debit section it's gonna go bankrupt
it's gonna get sick dive so first we
have to define success for ourselves and
then we have to put in the work to
maintain it take that daily tally tend
our garden keep the things that are
important to us in good shape I mean
let's submit it we've all got two wolves
in pursuit a good one and a bad and they
both want to eat the best I can tell we
just got to feed that good one with more
than the other here we go number five
don't leave crumbs and the beauty of
delayed gratification so what are crumbs
or the crumbs I'm talking about are the
choices that we make that make us have
to look over our shoulder in the future
you didn't pay that guy back the money
that you owed him and tonight you just
saw him three rows behind you she ate
you slept around on your spouse and you
just found out that tomorrow she and the
lady you're having an affair with are
gonna be at the same PTA meeting shit
again
you drank too much last night you're too
hungover to drive your son does 8:00
a.m. Saturday morning baseball practice
these are the crumbs they come in the
form of regret guilt and remorse you
leave crumbs today they will cause you
more stress tomorrow and they disallow
you from creating a customized future in
which you do not have to look over your
shoulder so let's flip the script
instead of creating outcomes that take
from us let's create more outcomes that
pay us back fill us up keep your fire
lit turn you on for the most amount of
time in your future these are the
choices I'm talking about and this is
the beauty delayed gratification by T
yourself up
do yourself a favor make the choices the
purchases today that pay you back
tomorrow residuals my business we call
it mailbox money I do my job well today
and that movie keeps rerunning on TV
five years from now I'm getting checks
in the mailbox it's a heck of a deal so
whether it's prepping the coffeemaker
the night before so all you got to do is
press the button in the morning or
getting ready for the job interview
early so you don't have to cram the
night before or chooses not to hook up
with that married woman because you know
you're gonna feel horrible about it
tomorrow and your husband carries a gun
or paying your debts on time so that
when you do see that guy three rows back
tonight you don't have to hunker down in
your seat hoping that he don't see you
get some ROI you know what that is
return on investment your investment you
customize your future
don't leave crumbs
you
[Applause]